Welcome back to digital
forensic concepts.
This is our final project and
these is the questions
with the answers.
Question number 1; what are
the four phases in
a complete computer
forensic examination?
The answer is
collection and storage,
the preservation process,
analysis and testing,
and reporting and testifying.
Question number 2; what is
the difference between
criminal and civil offenses?
Criminal law deals with
offenses against the state.
The burden of proof is proof
beyond a reasonable doubt,
and its punishment can
include time in jail.
Civil law deals with
violations of contracts,
lawsuits, divorces,
and custody cases.
Civil cases often have
a financial aspect.
The burden of proof is
preponderance of the evidence.
What does the Fourth
Amendment guarantee people?
Question 3.
The Fourth Amendment guarantees
people it's the right
of the people to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers,
and effects against unreasonable
searches and seizures,
shall not be violated
and no warrants
shall issue but upon
probable cause,
supported by oath or affirmation,
and particularly describing
the place to be searched,
and the person or
thing to be seized.
So it's the right of the
people to be secure in
their homes against unreasonable
searches and seizures,
and no warrant will be
issued unless there
is probable cause,
and that probable cause has to
include the place to be searched,
and the person or
thing to be seized.
If you violate the
Fourth Amendment,
that will result in the
evidence being thrown out.
Question number 4; what is
a consent search and can
consent be withdrawn?
A consent search is when a
person gives permission for
an official to seize and
search their property.
Consent should be
given in writing;
it must be given freely
and without coercion,
and yes, consent can be
withdrawn at any time.
Question 5; what is a
preservation request?
Preservation request is we
may request providers to,
for the time of 90 days,
preserve records that it has in
its possession pending the
issuance of legal process,
something like a search warrant.
We can only ask for the
information already in
their possession, not
future information.
We must have a date
and time with an IP address
to request records,
and we may need to
provide an account number
or other information.
This would be when we're
requesting records from
an Internet service provider
or some type of
social media account.
Question 6; what is
a search warrant?
A search warrant is a
legal document and it
authorizes the search
and/or seizure of property.
Search warrants are issued
upon the legal standard
of probable cause,
and they are supported by oath.
A search warrant authorizes
the search of a place
to look for evidence,
contraband, or stolen
property to be
used as evidence in
a criminal case.
Question 7; explain
the Daubert Rule.
The Daubert Rule is a test
regarding the admissibility
of scientific evidence.
The Daubert Rule requires
that a technique used to
obtain evidence has been
tested and verified,
has been subject to peer
review and publication,
it must have a known
rate of error,
and the method has been based
on accepted by the
scientific community.
The method that
we're using has been
accepted by the
scientific community.
Question number 8; what are
ethics and how do they
relate to digital forensics?
Well, ethics are a set of
principles that guide
a person's behavior.
When we're in our profession,
if we make poor
ethical decisions,
we can ruin a case
or even our careers.
Unethical behavior may
also severely disrupt
the lives or businesses of
those being investigated.
Unethical behavior can
lead to civil action.
We can be sued for
unethical behavior.
Question number 9; what
is Locard's Principle?
Locard's Principle has to do with
the cross-transference
of evidence.
When a person or
an object comes in
contact with another
person or an object,
evidence is exchanged
and this exchange can
link the perpetrator of a
crime to a particular place,
victim, or another
piece of evidence.
Locard's principle applies
to computer forensics also.
Electronic activities
produce artifacts.
When we interact with a computer,
we produce artifacts that are
detectable through our digital
forensic examinations.
Question number 10, list
the stages of the
scientific method.
Well, we have observation
and we're going to
make an observation.
We're going to
develop a hypothesis
based on our observation.
We're going to test
that hypothesis
to see if it is accurate or not,
and then we're going to
verify the hypothesis.
If a hypothesis is true,
then we make a conclusion.
If not, we need to form
another hypothesis.
Question 11, what is
the difference between a
witness and an expert witness?
A witness is a
person who provides
testimony under oath and is
subject to perjury laws.
You cannot lie under
oath. That's perjury.
A witness has a connection
to the incident,
or they have information about
the incident that's
being investigated.
An expert witness is a witness
with expert knowledge,
skill, or experience,
and training.
They are considered an
expert in a specific field,
and they are usually paid.
They do not necessarily have
any connection to
the crime itself.
They are an expert in the field
that is being talked about.
Question number 12.
What are the three V's
of big data forensics?
We have volume, and
the volume refers to the
complexity and size of the data.
Velocity refers to the speed
that modern data travels at.
Variety refers to
unstructured and/or
multi-structured data.
Those are the three V's
of big data forensics.
Question 13, give examples
of how a crime scene
can be documented.
Well, we can document a crime
scene with photographs,
we could document it with videos.
We could draw diagrams to
document our crime scene.
Question 14, what is
digital evidence?
Digital evidence is anything
that can hold data,
such as computer or a tablet,
a cell phone, router,
watch, camera,
an internal, external
drive, smart TVs, devices,
refrigerators, TVs,
Nest, Echo devices, etc.
Anything that can hold
data is considered
digital evidence.
Question 15, what facts
should be documented when
collecting evidence?
Well, we wanted to document
who collected the evidence,
where the evidence was found,
when was the evidence found?
Referring to the date and time.
What is the evidence?
You want to describe it,
make model, serial number.
Why is the evidence being seized?
Is it contained in a warrant?
Is it obviously contraband
or stolen property?
Question 16.
What does the preservation
of digital evidence entail?
Well, we want to prevent
destruction of the
original evidence.
We want to make no changes
to the original evidence.
We want to maintain
the integrity of
the original evidence from
the time of collection,
from the time we collected it
throughout the court proceedings.
Question 17.
If you find a device
when you're searching
for evidence that is
turned off in general,
you should do what?
The answer to that
is leave it off.
Question 18.
If you find the device
that is turned on
in general, you should do what?
If we find a device
that's turned on,
we want to photograph
all the open windows,
whether it be a computer
or a tablet or a phone.
If the device has a screen,
you want to photograph
all the open windows.
We want to know any running
applications and processes.
Any type of destructive processes
or any type of encryption.
Then we would collect the RAM.
The volatile memory.
If we encounter a
destructive process,
we would want to immediately pull
the plug from the
back of the device,
or in the case of a
laptop or a phone,
remove the battery, and if you
cannot remove the battery,
hard shut the device.
Question number 19.
When should an examiner
use write protection,
and part two of that,
and why would an examiner
use write protection?
We're going to always use
write protection when we're
working with the
original evidence,
when we're previewing
or live imaging.
That's when we're going
to use write protection.
Why we would use it is forensic
examiners use write
protection to prevent
changes or destruction of
the original evidence.
Question 20, what
is volatile data?
Volatile data is data
that is eradicated,
data that goes away,
when the device loses power.
Data not written to a hard drive.
Some examples are RAM,
random access memory.
Some malware will
only be alive in RAM.
Certain registry keys,
running processes, and
network connection,
are some examples of
data that we would
find in RAM as volatile data.
Question 21.
What is encryption?
What data types can
encryption be applied to?
Encryption is the process of
randomizing data,
making it unreadable.
This is done to secure the data
to prevent unauthorized access.
Encryption can be applied to
files, containers, volumes,
and disks. Question 22.
What would be some reasons
to conduct live imaging?
Well, if we find a
computer turned on,
and we see encryption running,
we may want to do
some live imaging,
so we can capture an
unencrypted logical image
of that volume.
If your system cannot
be shut down you
might be forced to
do live imaging.
If you're dealing with a server,
or a network that
cannot be shut down,
or if we're collecting RAM.
RAM has to be collected live
because if it loses power,
the RAM goes away,
and then you can't collect it.
Question 23.
When and why do
forensic examiners
only use sterile media
for evidence collection?
Well, forensic examiners
only use sterile media for
evidence collection
to ensure that
no previously or
pre-existing data,
is on the target drive.
We want to do this to
avoid cross-contamination.
Forensic examiners use
sterile media when
collecting evidence,
and when copying evidence
onto a storage device.
Question 24.
Why do forensic examiners
validate their hardware
and software tools?
The answer, forensic examiners
validate their hardware
and software tools,
to ensure accuracy of their
findings, and conclusions.
We want to become aware
of any software issues.
We want to avoid having our
findings being called
into question.
Question 25.
What does a full forensic image
of a physical disk contain?
We're talking about from sector
zero to the end of the drive.
It is a full forensic copy,
commonly referred to as an image.
It's going to contain
allocated files,
file slack, deleted
files, unallocated space,
unused space, that space
prior to the volume,
an HPA, host protected
area, and a DOC.
Question 26.
What is a hash value?
The answer, a hash value
is a way to represent
data with a unique
numerical value,
using a mathematical algorithm.
It is like a
fingerprint of a file.
Question 27.
Will the size of the data
change the length
of the hash value?
The answer is no. Regardless
of the size of the data,
the result is a fixed
length hexadecimal value.
We have common hash
types over MD5 hash,
which is a 128-bit value.
It's always going to be a 128
bits, 32 characters long.
Whether you're hashing
a one gigabyte folder,
or you're hashing a
10 terabyte drive,
it's a 128-bit value.
It does not change based
on the size of the data.
We have SHA1, which is a
160 bit at 40 characters,
and SHA256, which is 256-bit
value at 64 characters.
Question 28. List some of
the common uses of hashing.
Why do we use hashing?
What can we use it for?
Well, we can use it to ensure
data integrity
during transmission.
If we know the hash value of
the file that we're
supposed to be receiving,
once our transmission is
done we can hash that file.
If the hash value matches,
then we know that we've gotten
a good copy of that data.
It can also be used for sector
checking, file integrity,
and we use it to validate
a forensic copies of hard drives,
by forensic images, to show that
no changes were made to
the original evidence.
Question Number 29.
Describe the TCP:
Transmission Control
Protocol handshake used to
initiate data transfer.
The device requesting
the communication
sends a packet with
the SYN bit turned on.
The receiving device sends back
a packet with the SYN and
the ACK bit turned on.
The device requesting
the communication,
the first device
that originally sent
the SYN bit turned on
requested the communication,
then sends back a packet
with the ACK bit turned on,
and then communication starts.
That is the TCP handshake.
Question 30. What is
the function of DNS:
Domain Name Service?
DNS translates our
alphanumerical web addresses or
URLs into IP addresses
and vice versa.
What is a MAC address?
A MAC address is a hardware
identification number that
uniquely identifies each
device on a network.
It is burnt into
the network card of
the device and it is
unique to that device
and that device only.
Question 32.
What are case specific keywords?
Case specific keywords
are keywords that
relate to one specific case,
and some examples
of this could be
the names of the people
involved in our case,
some usernames for those
people, addresses,
whether they're email or
physical addresses,
phone numbers,
a certain type of
slang that maybe
your particular suspect uses,
URLs that they frequently visit,
and filenames of interest,
filenames that may
be pertinent to
that one specific case.
Question 33.
What would a forensic
examiner be looking
for using this grep search?
Let's take a look
at our grep search.
The answer is an IP address,
but we've got grep,
so we know we're using
grep and not extended
grep. Here's our expression.
We have our square brackets
with a range of
zero through nine,
so we're looking for a number
between zero and nine.
It's going to occur either
one or three times.
This is in a range.
Either it occurs once or
it occurs three times.
Then we're going to see a dot,
and then it's going to repeat
a numeric value of
zero through nine
occurring one or three
times followed by a dot,
numeric value of
zero through nine
occurring one or three
times followed by a dot,
a numeric value zero through
nine occurring one
or three times,
and that would describe
an IP address.
Because this is
grep and not egrep,
you have to escape the brackets,
special characters,
so that they function as
operators, special characters.
Otherwise, it'll look for
a literal square bracket or
a literal curly bracket.
If this were egrep,
we would not have to use
those escape characters,
but we would have to use an
escape character on the dot.
Question 34.
What are some of the limitations
of a text-based keyword search?
Now this is plaintext,
you're searching for a word
either in a file or you can
search your entire drive,
but some of the things that would
impede your text-based searches
would be bit shifting,
and this is when a file is
altered at the binary level,
the bits are actually moved
around using some
type of hex editor.
Encryption. Because we
know with encryption,
our text is not plaintext
anymore, it's scrambled.
Compression. We would
have to decompress
the files and then run
the keyword search
to get our hits,
and using non-word characters.
An example of that is
if you had a character,
you could replace
it with a number,
replace an O with a zero,
replace an E with a three,
and that will defeat your
plain text keyword searching.
Question Number 35.
What are some of the
considerations and qualities
a forensic examiner must think
about to produce a
well written report?
Well a well-written report,
we must consider our
target audience.
Who are we writing
this report for?
Is it somebody who
is highly technical?
Is it our boss?
Is it somebody who is
going to be on a jury?
Who is our audience?
Who are we writing
the report for?
We want to make it
clear and unambiguous.
We want to make it detailed,
but we want it to be concise.
It has to be
fact-based, unbiased,
and the report should include
any exculpatory findings.
Exculpatory findings are findings
that tend to prove
somebody's innocence.
End of final project.
Questions and answers.